this short tutorial will show you how to
quickly and easily play any piano chord
you want to will start with all 12 major
and all 12 minor chords even if you
don't read a note of music you can
quickly learn how to do this for example
you may have a song did you wish to play
on a piano but you only have lyrics with
guitar chords written above them I will
show you how to get started let's get
straight in and find the key middle C
this is a white key which is immediately
to the left of a pair of Black Keys
nearest the center of the keyboard now
each time we move from one key on the
keyboard to the next key immediately to
its right we're raising the pitch of
that note by a semitone or a half-step
so from here to here
half step half step half step half step
and so on
now all major chords have the same
combination of half steps so if we make
middle C our number one key and then
count up to number five two three four
five we now have E so C and E 1 and 5
and now we need 8 6 7 8 so C E and G 1 5
and 8 is our C major chord this chord is
in what's called a root position in
other words the lowest note of the chord
the note C is the name of the chord and
the other notes are built up on top of
that note
so this is a c-major root position chord
so if you remember the one five eight
you can play any of the 12 major chords
possible which are based on these keys
anywhere on the keyboard so let's try an
F chord F major one F is our one key two
three four five six seven eight
F major E flat major one two three four
five six seven eight
'if luck major so there you have it all
12 major keys major chords 1 5 8 minor
chords same principle applies only this
time we need 1 4 & 8 so for a C minor
chord C is 1 2 3 4 we have E flat 5 6 7
8 1 4 8 C minor D minor 1 for 8
a minor 1 for 8 F minor 1 for 8
so you now have all 12 major chords all
12 minor chords majors 1 5 8 - 1 for 8
there are many other kinds of chords
another example is a major 7th chord
sometimes written as maj7 or an
uppercase M with the 7 after it so C m7
uppercase M will be a C major 7th chord
this one is 1 5 8 again as in the C
major only this time we're going to add
12 to it 9 10 11 12 C major 7th
F major seventh one five eight twelve
and we can play these chords using a
basic compliment of just a single note
so for example the C major seventh we
can play it
sea bass note with it
to make it sound more full so see major
seventh f-major seventh
another chord you may come across is the
plain seventh or dominant seventh chord
for example c7 again is one five eight
but this time it's one five eight 11
nine ten eleven
so here we have c7 f7 would be one five
eight 11 so again we can add a bass to
it
one last chord the sus chord the sus 4
chord sometimes written maybe as C sus 4
is 1 6 & 8 these sus chords always want
to change back into the major chord so C
sus 4 1 6 8 2 C major on 5 8 so we can
have a CSS
go
B flats us
so the sum up major chords one five
eight
minor chord 1 for 8
major seventh one five eight twelve
dominant seventh one five eight 11
suspended fourth one six eight
there are many more chords to learn but
hopefully this tutorial will get you
started
a PDF document is available on my
website that you can print out with all
this information on it at the following
address happy playing
you